---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.13 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.13 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added a Config check to ensure users actually want to use the development branch.
* Added a flag to the version string when Anope is compiled in reproducible mode.
* Added a warning on rehash when the max password is longer than the maximum bcrypt password length.
* Added an ALLTIME handler on InspIRCd.
* Added an opt-out for extended XML-RPC types.
* Added options:linelength (defaults to 120).
* Added RPC messages for sending global messages.
* Added support for importing cs_set_misc and ns_set_misc data from Atheme.
* Added support for importing news from Atheme.
* Added support for oper-only quit messages.
* Added support for the experimental "services cloak" system from the InspIRCd development branch.
* Added support for using defines from the environment.
* Added support for using defines within the value of a variable.
* Added the db_json module.
* Added the rpc_message module.
* Added {nickserv}:defaultprotect (defaults to 1m).
* Added {nickserv}:maxprotect (defaults to 10m).
* Added {nickserv}:minprotect (defaults to 10s)
* Added {xmlrpc}:enable_i8 (defaults to yes).
* Added {xmlrpc}:enable_nil (defaults to yes).
* Blacklisted an old version of an UnrealIRCd module that is known to send malformed S2S messages.
* Changed RPC events to be registered as core services.
* Changed the database to refer to accounts by their account identifier instead of their display nick.
* Changed the syntax for using defines (all existing defines will need to be updated).
* Changed the syntax of defines from "foo" to "${foo}".
* Deduplicated JSON generation code in the jsonrpc module.
* Fixed a warning when importing an Atheme account that uses external authentication.
* Fixed counting email addresses in ns_maxemail.
* Fixed db_atheme creating duplicate accounts, bots, and nicks when importing over an existing database.
* Fixed deleting old database backups after Anope has been restarted.
* Fixed importing user metadata from Anope 1.8.
* Fixed including a port in uplink messages when connecting to a UNIX socket endpoint.
* Fixed memo ignores being erroneously case sensitive.
* Fixed modules with third-party dependencies writing generic log messages instead of module log messages.
* Fixed not performing SQL database updates in some rare circumstances.
* Fixed sending global messages with the default sender.
* Imported mkauthors from InspIRCd and used it to generate docs/AUTHORS.txt
* Moved around a bunch of module headers.
* Moved database serialization from the serializable to the serializable type.
* Moved the SASL protocol interface to its own service.
* Refactored handling S2S metadata on InspIRCd.
* Removed {nickserv}:kill (replaced by custom protection timer durations).
* Removed {nickserv}:killquick (replaced by custom protection timer durations).
* Removed {ns_set_kill}:allowkillimmed (replaced by custom protection timer durations).
* Renamed the nickserv/saset/kill command to nickserv/saset/protect.
* Renamed the nickserv/saset/kill oper privilege to nickserv/saset/protect.
* Renamed the nickserv/set/kill command to nickserv/set/protect.
* Renamed the ns_set_kill module to ns_set_protect.
* Renamed the sasl module to ns_sasl and moved it to nickserv.example.conf.
* Updated more messages to use gettext plural forms.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.12...2.1.13).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `bd0d964ce28d4f973e8d6fd20a3bd4b1a33a890db713fa7a7ebc1edde176db4b` [anope-2.1.13.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.13.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `c7fc9a22b64bfc63e093ed34b2d6284c6e5b53f848242a2d1417d96c294a77bf` [anope-2.1.13.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.13/anope-2.1.13.exe)
