---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.16 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.16 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added fantasy:require_privilege (defaults to yes).
* Added support for on-IRC code confirmation.
* Added the ability for fantasy commands to be executable without the FANTASY privilege.
* Added the ability to prepend to topics as well as appending to them.
* Added the nickserv/confirm/email command.
* Added the nickserv/confirm/email oper privilege.
* Added the nickserv/confirm/register command.
* Added the ns_confirm module.
* Added {ns_email}:changeexpire (defaults to 1 day).
* Added {ns_resetpass}:resetexpire (defaults to 1 day).
* Changed various fields to serialize to the database as a string not an integer.
* Disabled db_flatfile by default in preparation for becoming import-only.
* Fixed a memory leak in the db_json module.
* Fixed building on OpenSSL 1.1.1 (for now).
* Fixed removed and later re-added temporary bans being removed automatically.
* Fixed sometimes sending malformed LMODE messages on InspIRCd.
* Fixed the "did you mean" message suggesting unloaded commands.
* Fixed various issues with the example config files.
* Marked db_json as the recommended database module.
* Moved the BAN, UNBAN, and KICK commands to the chanserv/management group.
* Removed support for the 1.8-style seen command.
* Removed the irc2sql module (migrate to JSON-RPC instead).
* Removed {ns_seen}:simple (1.8-style seen has been removed).
* Renamed the nickserv/confirm oper privilege to nickserv/confirm/register.
* Reworked confirmation to allow confirmation of multiple account actions.
* When dropping a display nickname the new display will now be the oldest in the group.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.15...2.1.16).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `dffc17e39b21216a064738931de078bb9328d5a615d4173399213c5730c2a933` [anope-2.1.16.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.16.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `b1953cf37053e4b931e9ca2496b60c77cc822eae117fdbbd71d4dfb0a9fe52f2` [anope-2.1.16.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.16/anope-2.1.16.exe)
