---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.12 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.12 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

 * Added an example JavaScript library for accessing the RPC interface.
 * Added an option to require specifying the server name when running destructive network commands like restart or shutdown.
 * Added support for importing X-line identifiers from Atheme.
 * Added support for JSON-RPC to the RPC interface.
 * Added support for killing SASL users that fail to log in repeatedly.
 * Added support for more RPC response types to the RPC interface.
 * Added support for multiple targets in chanserv/modes.
 * Added support for SSL client certificate fallback fingerprints on InspIRCd.
 * Added the anope. prefix to the channel and user RPC events and moved them to the rpc_data module.
 * Added the anope.listChannels, anope.listServers, anope.listUsers, and anope.server RPC events to the new rpc_data module.
 * Added the jsonrpc module.
 * Added the OPERONLY, UNUSED and VANITY filters to botserv/botlist.
 * Added the rpc_data module.
 * Added the rpc_system module.
 * Added the system.listMethods RPC event to the new rpc_system module.
 * Added {hostserv}:activate_on_deoper (defaults to yes).
 * Added {os_shutdown}:requirename (defaults to yes).
 * Deprecated support for InspIRCd v3 (scheduled to be removed in around a year).
 * Fixed enc_bcrypt silently truncating passwords longer than 71 characters.
 * Fixed ns_set_language being able to be loaded when Anope was built without language support.
 * Fixed sql_authentication not being able to use the IP address of a RPC, SASL, or web user in SQL queries.
 * Made modules that use third-party libraries log the version in use on load.
 * Moved nickserv/set/keepmodes and nickserv/saset/keepmodes to the ns_set_keepmodes module.
 * Moved the xmlrpc module to extra.
 * Redesigned the RPC interface to add support for emitting multiple data types.
 * Renamed the xmlrpc_main module to rpc_main.
 * Replaced the opers RPC event with rpc.listOpers and rpc.oper events in the new rpc_data module.
 * Updated the Dutch translation.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.11...2.1.12).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `8b2992a80463cd80e56c146182e9cede9c30a1cc5cf65d14acb8b44f52b84059` [anope-2.1.12.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.12.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `b462469e3907658b274172c31fdb2e9ae8633aa769164c1ae5c90f658a5444e5` [anope-2.1.12.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.12/anope-2.1.12.exe)
