---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.18 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.18 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added a check that a non-deprecated database module is loaded.
* Added support for flexible and monospace layouts to make text easier to read on clients that use a variable-width font.
* Added support for logging about deprecated modules on boot.
* Added support for per-IRCd hints when a link fails.
* Added support for self-service validation of vhosts using DNS TXT records.
* Added support for separate bad password limits for pre-connection SASL authentication.
* Added support for SRV and TXT records to the dns module.
* Added the --nodb option to disable database and encrytption module checks.
* Added the hostserv/validate command.
* Added the nickname registration date to the nickserv/glist output.
* Added the nickserv/saset/layout command.
* Added the nickserv/set/layout command.
* Added the ns_sasl_anonymous module.
* Added the ns_sasl_external module.
* Added the ns_sasl_plain module.
* Added the ns_set_layout module.
* Added the ns_set_op module.
* Added {hs_request}:validationcooldown (defaults to 5 minutes).
* Added {hs_request}:validationrecord (defaults to "anope-dns-validation").
* Added {ns_sasl}:badpasslimit (defaults to options:badpasslimit).
* Added {ns_sasl}:badpasstimeout (defaults to options:badpasstimeout).
* Changed db_flatfile to be import-only (migrate to db_json).
* Changed the default registration confirmation type to code validation.
* Changed the fantasy !help command to not require the FANTASY privilege by default.
* Changed various length measurement code to be UTF-8 aware.
* Disabled the nickname registration delay by default.
* Fixed reporting the MySQL version that the mysql module was built against.
* Improved the layout of the nickserv/info command.
* Modularised the ns_sasl module to make it easier to pick SASL mechanisms.
* Moved duration rounding logic from Anope::Expires to Anope::Duration.
* Moved nickserv/set/autoop and nickserv/saset/autoop to the ns_set_op module.
* Moved nickserv/set/display and nickserv/saset/display to the ns_set_group module.
* Moved nickserv/set/neverop and nickserv/saset/neverop to the ns_set_op module.
* Removed support for importing old databases from 1.8.
* Removed support for verifying "old MD5" passwords from 1.7.
* Removed the db_old module.
* Removed the enc_old module.
* Removed {db_flatfile}:fork (module is now import-only).
* Removed {db_flatfile}:keepbackups (module is now import-only).
* Removed {db_flatfile}:nobackupokay (module is now import-only).
* Reworked how memory is allocated when formatting messages.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.17...2.1.18).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `40c8f59118f7ee2d0f4a66a3e1ab022dc91fcad3ff89ea4e6e3fc20de09dc3af` [anope-2.1.18.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.18.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `da4f82d9c44b9a02b44d34528998ec5df0a8fc880a8c4fb47735eff28c3ea684` [anope-2.1.18.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.18/anope-2.1.18.exe)
