---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.24 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2026
---

Anope 2.1.24 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

### Breaking Changes

* If a database contains duplicate corrupt entries from a prior write failure the oldest ones will now be purged from the database. This is a destructive action so make sure you take a manual backup of your database before upgrading.

* Removed support for storing the Anope database in Redis. The Redis code was extremely bitrotted, had not been tested in years, and to our knowledge has almost no (if any) users. It is recommended that db_redis users migrate to db_json or db_sql.

* SQL tables now use versioned prefixes by default. For the SQL database backends the default is `anope21_` and for ChanStats the default is `chanstats21_`. If you do not have a prefix explicitly set in your config you will need to add one it. Alternatively, you may also want to consider exporting to db_json and re-importing to update your SQL schema for the recent database layout changes.

### Changes

* Added some helper methods to `CommandSource` to allow quickly translting messages.

* Changed the Config script to allow multiple dashes in front of options, i.e. `-quick` and `--quick` are now equivalent.

* Converted some language strings to use format strings instead of concatenation.

* Fixed a rare crash in the ns_cert module.

* Fixed building Anope as a unity build.

* Fixed the ns_cert module erasing certificate entries if using an old database.

* Fixed users having the wrong real name in log messages on InspIRCd if it has been previously changed with `CHGNAME` or `SETNAME`.

---

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.23...2.1.24).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `db5acf490672b64820b5a1d67c60bfe72309e797e60441a30caf48ac1033e065` [anope-2.1.24.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.24.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `030551e12b59cb028f0c8ffea18b1801fe74b5f250c44491c74ee8ce7bac1568` [anope-2.1.24.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.24/anope-2.1.24.exe)
