---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.21 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2026
---

Anope 2.1.21 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

### Breaking Changes

* `{fantasy}:fantasycharacter` has been replaced with `{fantasy}:prefix` which allows multiple-character fantasy prefixes. If you have multiple custom fantasy characters set you should separate them with a space when upgrading your config.

* The db_json module will now terminate the process if it fails to write the database. This replicates the behaviour previously used by the db_flatfile module.

* When adding an unregistered user to an access list you must now explicitly specify their hostmask. This prevents accidentally adding a hostmask which is too wide.

### Changes

* Added cleaning up of hostmasks when adding them to an access list and `{chanserv}:disallow_malformed_hostmask` to allow rejecting them instead.

* Changed access commands to add the account of a user who is logged in to an account but not using a nickname belonging to that account.

* Fixed a crash when clearing channel entry messages.

* Fixed a memory leak when cloning akicks.

* Fixed cleaning up ban masks.

* Fixed confirming accounts using the webcpanel.

* Fixed importing the time a nickname was used from Atheme.

* Fixed limiting the number of accounts per email address.

* Fixed locking modes that take a parameter when they are added.

* Fixed the `chanserv/enforce` command erroneously enforcing against channel founders.

* Fixed the syntax of the `chanserv/suspend` command.

* Fixed the syntax of the `nickserv/suspend` command.

* Improved password rehash detection in the enc_argon2 module.

* Various minor improvements to how services work internally.

---

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.20...2.1.21).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `6ea51ebbafbb8919bbb85bfbb0724e9b7fd12f01397f0b2ed8555fd801d23490` [anope-2.1.21.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.21.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `cc46333dcfad555c74a0e9b25faf7f2f6f62852860c0f3f36c80f2542ad76b23` [anope-2.1.21.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.21/anope-2.1.21.exe)
