---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.25 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2026
---

Anope 2.1.25 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

### General Changes

* Added a cooldown timer to `hs_request` for after a vhost is approved or rejected.

* Added environment variables for configuring hashing algorithms to `anope-mkpasswd`.

* Added support for building with position-independent code on supported platforms.

* Added support for prioritising WHOIS entries in `ns_set_misc`.

* Documented the `ns_flexible` and `ns_monospace` account options.

* Dropped support for the `+draft/reply` tag in favour of the non-draft variant.

* Fixed a crash on shutdown when trying to send a global without an uplink.

* Fixed a crash when a temporary ban expires.

* Fixed a crash when trying to upgrade TLS fingerprints from an older algorithm.

* Fixed a potential crash caused by unusual timestamps being passed to `Anope::strftime`.

* Fixed confirming accounts when `{ns_register}:registration` is set to "admin".

* Fixed edge cases relating to IRCd-sent account names.

* Fixed extra CMake arguments from `./Config` being ignored.

* Fixed flag migration sometimes giving users higher privileges than they had originally when a flag provides multiple privileges.

* Fixed not being able to update the description of a flags access entry.

* Fixed not migrating the last seen time with an access entry.

* Fixed not using the extra CMake arguments from `./Config`.

* Fixed some command descriptions not being imperative statements.

* Fixed some help messages that did not reflect the default flag/level/xop access when changed in the configuration.

* Fixed the default memory hardness in the `enc_argon2` module.

* Improved configuring paths at build time.

* Improved help output for the `nickserv/set/timezone` command.

* Improved importing databases from Atheme.

* Improved support for reproducible builds.

* Redocumented the `nickserv/set/keepmodes` command.

* Separated the delay between nickname registrations from the delay between grouping nicknames.

* Updated the Portuguese translation.

* Updated the Romanian translation.

### Developer Changes

* Added `Block::GetBlocks` to allow using a range-based for loop to iterate config blocks.

* Added an event to `IRCDProto` to populate common tags onto a S2S message.

* Added automated testing on InspIRCd, Solanum, and UnrealIRCd using irctest.

* Added support for adding ajoin entries from modules.

* Changed various configuration block index fields to use an unsigned integer.

* Changed vendored libraries to be built as static libraries and linked into the modules that require them.

* Simplified timer repeat logic by allowing tick events to return bool to control whether the timer continues running.

---

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.24...2.1.25).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `d0837d752ced2cc3ad4a1fe84c7eb89ef2c6185634c4548b4eeb5ac77ae29621` [anope-2.1.25.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.25.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `25e5b243dfd43260694e8a6fc32d1acc8bad78200b8c63f74482150421e1d751` [anope-2.1.25.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.25/anope-2.1.25.exe)
