---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.11 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2024
---

Anope 2.1.11 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added support for database migrations to the mysql module.
* Added support for renicking users to their UID when enforcing nickname protection.
* Added support for sending channel URLs to joining users.
* Allowed selecting languages using a shorter version of their name.
* Changed various messages to use human-readable durations instead of seconds.
* Improved the creation of expiry and duration messages.
* Improved the translation system with support for plural forms.
* Moved module:allowkilimmed from the ns_set module to the ns_set_kill module.
* Moved nickserv/set/kill and nickserv/saset/kill to the ns_set_kill module.
* Replaced module:guestnickprefix for the nickserv module with module:guestnick.
* Reworked how guest nicknames are generated.
* Simplified how account identifiers are allocated.

The full change log can be found in the `docs` directory or on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.10...2.1.11).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `9a8a233af35743c19dd6525c1277c1df75e819e8d638db94b9085de2e1d85b31` [anope-2.1.11.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.11.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `3cb3c297b7a209e0c550f5f009b35eaf0aa4a0366bc9db0fe4f4d9c533ff401c` [anope-2.1.11.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.11/anope-2.1.11.exe)
