---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.10 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2024
---

Anope 2.1.10 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

- Added options:servicealias.
- Added support for NEXTBANS on UnrealIRCd.
- Changed hostmask access entries added by nick to use that nick as the default description.
- Changed modes to be handled internally in their split form.
- Changed ns_cert to notify a user that their certificate is being automatically added to their account.
- Fixed matching users against extended bans.
- Fixed parsing name-only extended bans on InspIRCd.
- Fixed respecting the preferred extended ban format on InspIRCd.
- Fixed the name of the cron script in the docs.
- Moved nickserv/set/message and nickserv/saset/message to the ns_set_message module.
- Removed options:useprivmsg..
- Removed options:usestrictprivmsg.
- Updated the list of supported IRCds.
- Updated the location of the Anope IRC channels.

The full change log can be found in the `docs` directory or on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.9...2.1.10).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `9a8a233af35743c19dd6525c1277c1df75e819e8d638db94b9085de2e1d85b31` [anope-2.1.10.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.10.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `3cb3c297b7a209e0c550f5f009b35eaf0aa4a0366bc9db0fe4f4d9c533ff401c` [anope-2.1.10.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.10/anope-2.1.10.exe)
