---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.15 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.15 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added a workaround to the jsonrpc module for JavaScript truncating big integers.
 * Added an example Ruby library for accessing the RPC interface.
 * Added away state and tls usage to the anope.user RPC event.
 * Added support for looking up accounts by identifier in the anope.account RPC event.
 * Added support for storing the setter and set time and setter of list modes and restoring them on InspIRCd and Solanum.
 * Added support for token authentication to the RPC modules.
 * Added the anope.checkCredentials, anope.identify, anope.listCommands, and anope.command RPC events to the new rpc_user module.
 * Added the ns_email module.
 * Added the rpc_user module.
 * Added {jsonrpc}:integer_bits (defaults to 64).
 * Added {jsonrpc}:token.
 * Added {nickserv}:enforcerreal (defaults to "Services Enforcer").
 * Added {xmlrpc}:token.
 * Bumped the minimum supported version of ircd-hybrid to 8.2.34.
 * Deprecated irc2sql in favour of rpc_data.
 * Dropped support for Bahamut as it has no known users.
 * Fixed creating duplicate Stats rows on some servers.
 * Fixed loading databases in db_json.
 * Fixed restoring cloaked hosts on InspIRCd when the cloak module is not loaded.
 * Fixed some variable shadowing that potentially caused issues with the SQL database backends.
 * Fixed sometimes writing accounts to the database without a unique identifier.
 * Fixed various documentation issues with the example JavaScript JSON-RPC client.
 * Improved CTCP handling and added support for more CTCP types.
 * Moved nickserv/set/email and nickserv/saset/email to the ns_email module.
 * Removed the bahamut module.
 * Removed the ns_getemail module (load ns_email instead).
 * Removed the ns_maxemail module (load ns_email instead).
 * Removed the rpc_main module (migrate to the other RPC modules).
 * Removed {chanstats}:cs_def_chanstats (add CS_STATS to {chanserv}:defaults instead).
 * Removed {chanstats}:ns_def_chanstats (add NS_STATS to {nickserv}:defaults instead).
 * Renamed service:gecos to service:real.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.14...2.1.15).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `adebe78bbb22cf175f68449012c41d0eebcb7d72e868211d24347bc66be0bc64` [anope-2.1.15.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.15.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `02025083f2f9f1b4db11e20aba02f7346eac2aedc0be61db0e9bf3902be86705` [anope-2.1.15.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.15/anope-2.1.15.exe)
