---
layout: post
title: Anope 2.1.14 Release
author: Sadie
category: 2025
---

Anope 2.1.14 has been released. This is a development release.

The most notable changes are:

* Added a detail specifier to the anope.list{Channels,Opers,Servers,Users} RPC methods.
* Added a matcher for the InspIRCd oper extban.
* Added oper:password_hash.
* Added options:codelength (defaults to 15).
* Added support for hashed operator passwords.
* Added support for hiding the date news was added in os_news.
* Added support for local password comparison to the sql_authentication module.
* Added support for monthly backups to db_json.
* Added support for unbanning virtual modes using cs_unban.
* Added the !unmute fantasy command.
* Added the anope.account and anope.listAccounts RPC methods to the rpc_data module.
* Added the protection time to the INFO output.
* Added {os_news}:showdate (defaults to yes).
* Added {sql_authentication}:password_field (defaults to "password").
* Added {sql_authentication}:password_hash.
* Allowed unprivileged channel successors to remove themselves from succession.
* Bumped the minimum required CMake version to 3.20.
* Changed deletion callbacks to specify the mask that was deleted if only one was.
* Changed nickserv/alist to show all permissions not just the highest ranked one.
* Changed the default value for options:linelength to "100".
* Changed the default value for {enc_sha2}:algorithm to "sha512".
* Changed the default value for {ns_seen}:purgetime to "90d".
* Changed the syntax for template variables in mail:emailchange_message, mail:emailchange_subject, mail:memo_message, mail:memo_subject, mail:registration_message, mail:registration_subject, mail:reset_message, mail:reset_subject, {chanserv}:signkickformat, {dnsbl}:blacklist:reason, {ldap_authentication}:search_filter, {ldap_oper}:binddn, {ldap_oper}:filter, {nickserv}:unregistered_notice, {os_session}:sessionlimitexceeded, {proxyscan}:proxyscan:reason.
* Fixed NEVEROP not being respected in chanserv/set/founder and chanserv/set/successor.
* Fixed stripping IRC formatting codes from messages.
* Messages are now automatically line wrapped to options:linelength.
* Redocumented the ns_sasl module.
* Removed hardcoded command names from several messages.
* Updated the Windows CI to Windows Server 2025 and Visual Studio 2022.

The full change log can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/anope/anope/compare/2.1.13...2.1.14).

Users who want to test out new features are encouraged to upgrade. Before upgrading you may wish to take a backup of your databases and read the [upgrading guide](/upgrading.html). If you encounter any incompatibilities that aren't mentioned on this page then [please open an issue](https://github.com/anope/website/issues/new).

SHA256 Sum: `bd0d964ce28d4f973e8d6fd20a3bd4b1a33a890db713fa7a7ebc1edde176db4b` [anope-2.1.14.tar.gz](https://github.com/anope/anope/archive/refs/tags/2.1.14.tar.gz)
\
SHA256 Sum: `c7fc9a22b64bfc63e093ed34b2d6284c6e5b53f848242a2d1417d96c294a77bf` [anope-2.1.14.exe](https://github.com/anope/anope/releases/download/2.1.14/anope-2.1.14.exe)
